Abstract

Improve Autism Screening by creating predicting the likelihood of having this condition.

About this dataset

What is Autism
Autism, or autism spectrum disorder (ASD), refers to a broad range of conditions characterized by challenges with social skills, 
repetitive behaviors, speech and nonverbal communication.

Causes and Challenges

It is mostly influenced by a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Because autism is a spectrum disorder, 
each person with autism has a distinct set of strengths and challenges. The ways in which people with autism learn, 
think and problem-solve can range from highly skilled to severely challenged.
Research has made clear that high quality early intervention can improve learning, communication and social skills, 
as well as underlying brain development. Yet the diagnostic process can take several years.

The Role of Machine Learning

This dataset is composed of survey results for more than 700 people who filled an app form. There are labels portraying 
whether the person received a diagnosis of autism, allowing machine learning models to predict the likelihood of 
having autism, therefore allowing healthcare professionals prioritize their resources.

REVA Academy for Corporate Excellence, RACE is an initiative of REVA University, which offers a range of specialized, 
techno-functional programs in emerging technologies, custom-designed for the learning needs of working professionals 
and organizations. RACE undertakes research and consulting projects in artificial intelligence and data science on 
social causes. One of the areas RACE researchers are working is on learning disabilities. Through this competition, 
we endeavor to create awareness among the data science community to develop an early detection system to prevent Autism.

Swags: The top five winning teams will receive customized swags from Infosys ,Swiss Re and Terralogic Inc.


Columns

ID - ID of the patient

A1_Score to A10_Score - Score based on Autism Spectrum Quotient (AQ) 10 item screening tool *improtant*

age - Age of the patient in years

gender - Gender of the patient

ethnicity - Ethnicity of the patient

jaundice - Whether the patient had jaundice at the time of birth

autism - Whether an immediate family member has been diagnosed with autism

contry_of_res - Country of residence of the patient

used_app_before - Whether the patient has undergone a screening test before

result - Score for AQ1-10 screening test

age_desc - Age of the patient

relation - Relation of patient who completed the test

Class/ASD - Classified result as 0 or 1. Here 0 represents No and 1 represents Yes. 
            This is the target column, and during submission submit the values as 0 or 1 only.